[0:00:00] This guy has made over $10 million trading forex  and cryptocurrency. This might sound blasphemy   on this podcast and coming from me, but maybe  you use Oh, wow. Now, we have all of the price   action concept. I just saved you watching 12  months of ICT videos. I'm going to show you how   to apply this. And what it's going to allow you  to do is two super important things. It's one,   it's going to help you determine your dream. A  verified 8 figure ICT trader. It's the one and   only trader mate. I'm going to be covering the  framework for actually the entire strategy that   I still use to this day. The strategy that I've  used for several years now, your entry technique,   which is just this. I'm sorry for any gurus that  I've now ruined your thing. Cuz this is how a   lot of guys teach people to trade. Today, he is  going to break down the exact ICT concepts that   he used to be able to achieve that result. What  you're noticing here is ICT and other smart money  
[0:00:55] guys sometimes like to really make some of these  things seem complicated. They really don't have to   be that complicated in practice. To make it even  better, he has simplified it all down to make it   simple, easy, and repeatable. No matter if you're  a beginner or an advanced trader, ICT always says   like, I want to know that the institutions are in  this move. It's institutionally sponsored. Really,   what does that mean? And it means that you're  getting a Welcome back everyone to Chart Fanatics,   the go-to channel for the very best strategy  and concept breakdowns in the trading industry   with the very best traders in the world. Talking  of which, today we have our very first 8 figure   verified trader on chart fanatics. He is an  incredible crypto trader, but this strategy is   actually universal whether you're futures, forex  or crypto. And he's the co-founder of Breakout,   the number one prop firm in the crypto space.  It's the one and only Trader Mine. How you doing,  
[0:01:47] man? Excited to be here. Thank you. I'm good.  Well, let's get straight into it, man. So,   I'm very, very excited. What are we going to be  breaking down here on the whiteboard and what   strategy are we looking at? Awesome. So, I'm going  to be covering uh the framework for actually the   entire strategy that I still use to this day, the  strategy that I've used for several years now. So,   what we're going to do is we're going to break  down several different kind of complex price   action concepts. I'll explain to you what they  are. Uh, and the goal here is to help you identify   high probability trading areas. Ultimately, the  goal is to be able to increase your win rate.   And I'm going to give you a framework that you're  going to be able to easily apply into your charts,   and you're going to be able to figure out things  like trend, market structure, points of interest,   different types of liquidity, external, external,  draws on liquidity, as well as premium versus  
[0:02:40] discount. So, if you're a smart money trader,  price action trader, I know some of these concepts   sound familiar to you. I'm going to break them  down in a super visual, easy way that you're   going to be starting to uh that you're going to  be able to put into your charts right away. Love   that. Let's get into it. Where do we begin? First  thing that we're going to cover is actually all   of the price action concepts um that you need to  know to understand this strategy. And then once   we understand these concepts, I'm going to put  it all together for you and the trades you start   taking going to be higher probability. So first  thing we're going to talk about is just the three   directions in which price can actually go. So when  you are looking at a chart, price can really only   ever do three things. Obviously an uptrend is the  most obvious one, right? So price is consistently   making higher lows, higher highs, easy visual  to see. This would be considered bullish price  
[0:03:35] action. The inverse of this would then be of  course a downtrend. Right? Price is making lower   highs, lower lows, and this would be considered  bearish price action. So these are the two main   trends for price. We can go ahead and wipe this  away. The last thing price can do obviously is go   sideways. So there's a lot of different terms  for sideways price action. You could call it   a consolidation. You could call it a range. You  could call it reaccumulation or redistribution. So   if price is in an uptrend, then it goes sideways,  then it continues up. This would be accumulation   or reaccumulation. What we're going to be focusing  on here is trending environments. So either price   making higher highs and higher lows, an uptrend,  or lower highs and lower lows, which would be a   downtrend. So let's assume for this example that  we are in an uptrend. So price is making a low  
[0:04:31] to a high to another low to another high. So it's  consistently making higher highs and higher lows.   So if you're a trader and you want to get in  on this trend, what's the most optimal time   to actually enter the trade? You could enter the  trade here theoretically and if you're willing to   hold all this draw down and you survive this draw  down, you might end up making money when it trades   back here, but in reality, the most optimal area  to get into the trade is at those higher lows. And   so what this framework and this strategy is going  to help you do, it's going to help you find the   most likely areas for these higher lows to occur.  It's going to give you the best riskreward. It's   also going to give you the best chance to find a  high probability setup on the lower time frames   knowing that you're in line with that high time  frame trend. When you say higher time frames,  
[0:05:29] is it in regards to uh is it all subjective? So  like this could be the daily and then lower time   frame could be the hour or it could be the weekly.  100%. So this framework is what I use to apply   on my high time frame. High time frame can be  whatever you want, monthly, daily, weekly. The key   here is we want at least two time frames. Okay.  The high time frame that you do your analysis on.   The low time frame is where you're actually doing  your execution. Do you have like uh any that you   have set out? So like if you said weekly, do you  have then the next time frame already? Yes. So   what I generally do is if I'm using the weekly  for the high time frame, my execution time frame   is going to be the daily or sometimes even the H12  because I'm weird and I like the H12 time frame.   But you got to pay for Trading View Premium for  that one. If I'm using the daily or again the H12,   my execution time frame then becomes the  H1. Okay. If the H4 is my high time frame,  
[0:06:26] my execution time frame becomes the M15. And  then ultimately, I never really go down this low,   but for the scalpers out there, you can go as  low as the H1 and even down to the M5 as your   execution time frame. So, this is the time frame  where we're going to be applying the framework.   This is the time frame where you're actually going  to be looking for your setup. Where do you enter?   Where does your stop go? So that previous drawing  that you just had out, the higher highs, higher   lows, this essentially would be this section.  Exactly. And what we're going to go into in   terms of like identifying and executing would be  this section. I'm going to show you exactly where   the best place to look for this is going to be.  Amazing. So the next kind of concept that we need   to cover is market structure. So market structure  quite basic. Is the market going up or down? Are   we making higher highs? Are we making higher lows?  So this is going to be the easiest thing to see  
[0:07:20] on your chart. I use just a three candle swing  system. So that means if I have a candlestick   here and then I have another candlestick in the  middle and then another candlestick here. To me,   this constitutes a swing high because there's  three candles with the highest candle being   in the middle and a lower one on each side. Some  people use five candles. Some people do all sorts   of crazy stuff. I like the three candle system.  And this would of course be the inverse for uh a   swing low. So, a market structure break means that  we need to see a candle close through this high.   That will constitute a market structure break. So,  if we want to know if the market is in an uptrend,   I want to see price putting in higher highs and  higher lows. So, every time we get one of these  
[0:08:17] new higher highs, this tells me that the uptrend  is continuing. So, you can mark this on your chart   as like an MSB. Here's another one. And what  we're looking for now, of course, is okay,   we've just had an MSB. My anticipation is even  though price is pulling back, I'm expecting this   trend to continue. That's the goal here. We want  to find the point at which this pullback ends and   the next leg of the uptrend continues because this  is going to be where those high probability setups   form. Hey guys, I hope you're enjoying this  episode so far and don't forget we send every   single strategy breakdown from every episode for  free on chartanatics.com. So the link for that is   in the description below. So just make sure you  click that. You just put your email in and every   single week we will send you an up-to-date PDF  strategy breakdown for you to keep, to learn from,  
[0:09:11] to reference for free. And don't forget, we're  also launching Chart Fanatics Live where your   favorite traders from Chart Fanatics will be live  trading every single day. I will also be including   special guests on the live Chart fanatics edition.  So, make sure you go subscribe to that YouTube   channel right now. It's linked on the main profile  of Chart Fanatics. So, make sure you're ready   for that. Let's take a break for a minute there,  guys, cuz I want to tell you about our preferred   prop firm here at Chart Fanatics, and it is Apex  Trader Funding. We are no stranger to Apex. We've   had Jadecap and Trader Kane on Words of Wisdom  and here on Chart Fanatics. Now, they are well   known for having record payouts on Apex of over $2  million a piece. Now, even if you don't achieve a   seven figure payout, the reality of achieving  a multi6figure payouts with Apex is absolutely  
[0:10:02] achievable and an incredible opportunity at that.  And you can see that on screen right now with all   the incredible payouts being paid out to traders  around the world, traders just like you. Now,   Apex is the biggest futures firm in the entire  industry and have paid out over $500 million to   traders across the world. No matter the type of  trader, you can be one of them, too. Now, one of   our favorite things about Apex is that you can get  up to $6 million in funding using the 20 accounts   that you're allowed to have and the 300K account  at that that totals $6 million. And another   thing that we love about Apex is that there's no  daily draw down. It's a one-step evaluation and   the fact that is uncapped payouts and 90% of the  profits made are yours to keep. Now, don't forget,   regardless of the type of trader that you are, you  do not have to worry about trading news as long  
[0:10:53] as you are following your day-to-day trading  strategy. The possibilities are limitless at   Apex Trader Funding. Now, you can get up to  90% off, 90% off the biggest discount in the   entire industry at Apex using the code CF and the  link in the description below. Thanks to them and   thanks to Chart Fanatics. Make sure you get your  futures funding with Apex. Now, let's get back   to the episode. Next up, we're going to talk about  the thing that actually creates these higher highs   and higher lows. So, we're going to stick with our  um uptrend example here. So, I call these POIs,   points of interest. You're going to see a ton  of different conjecture. If you're an ICT guy,   if you're a smart money concept, who invented the  terms, it doesn't really matter. They all kind of   do the same thing. So, you might call them  PDAs, you might call them supply and demand.  
[0:11:45] I drank the ICT Kool-Aid quite early on. So, I use  the ICT terminology. So, I use order blocks, OBS,   I use breaker blocks, and then I use fair value  gaps. Those are the three points of interest   that I focus on. Um, order blocks are going to  be the one that we're going to cover in this   video in specific, but what you'll actually find  is generally two or three of these will actually   always show up kind of at the same time. There's  an OB. Sometimes there's a fair value gap after   it. There's a breaker. There might be a fair value  gap there as well. Sometimes you have an OB and   a breaker and a fair value gap. And that's the  classic ICT. And then it's like, well, which one   do you pick? We're actually going to help you with  that in this strategy because sometimes people get   a little lost in the minutia. You don't need to  know as much about these as you actually think to   get into the trade. And really the crux of what  I'm going to share with you here is all of this  
[0:12:39] stuff, we're going to put it together in a super  easy way where by the end of this video, you're   going to go on your chart, you'll be able to find  it yourself. So those are the main three POIs that   I work with. Think of the POI is where I want to  do business. So when the market makes its pullback   and we have, let's say, an order block form here,  this is where you want to have your alert on.   I'm now paying attention because in this area I'm  now looking for that potential higher low to form.   Exactly. So that's your order block. And then the  expectation here because the trend leading into   this was bullish is that a higher low is going to  form here and we're going to continue that trend.   So, this optimal area for the higher low is where  I want to do business because the likelihood of   me being right, me getting a trade that works  out is way higher here than longing somewhere  
[0:13:31] randomly in here or somewhere randomly on the way  up. The next kind of concept that we want to cover   here is going to be liquidity. Again, depending  on who you follow and what vernacular you use,   there's a lot of different kind of terms for  liquidity. I'm going to be talking about three   different things when it comes to liquidity.  First is your external range liquidity. This   is simply liquidity that occurs outside of the  trading range. So if this is your price swing,   okay, this is your trading range, let's say from  here to here. Any liquidity that forms outside   of this range is external. Any liquidity  that forms within this range is internal.   You can go way deep in the weeds on different  types of liquidity. For simplicity sake, external  
[0:14:22] range liquidity is going to be swing highs and  swing lows that are outside of your current   trading range. Internal range liquidity is just  going to be a POI within the range. So an order   block, this would be internal range liquidity. And  a external range liquidity would be a swing high.   Maybe it's over here on the chart that price could  be drawing to. That's the basics of it. Again,   what you're noticing here is ICT and other smart  money guys sometimes like to really make some of   these things seem complicated. They really don't  have to be that complicated in practice. The last   thing about liquidity we're going to talk about is  the draw on liquidity. So, there's this idea that   the market is drawn from liquidity to liquidity.  That's what moves the market. Whether you believe   it's an algorithm, it's the boogeyman, it's the  CIA, the market makers, whoseever is moving it,  
[0:15:18] they're moving it from liquidity to liquidity,  draw on liquidity simply means that okay,   if price ran below a swing low, where is it next  likely to go? Okay, it's going to go over to some   swing high and it just bounces between liquidity  to liquidity. Draw on liquidity just simply means   what's the next likely area. Yeah. So it's like  essentially if this liquidity is taken the the   draw on liquidity the most optimum is then the  next one which would be in this case because   the concept meaning that if the liquidity is taken  here and there's nothing left it needs to then get   obviously the draw needs to go to. So if I filled  a bunch of longs here where do I want to sell off   those longs? I want to sell them off way up there.  And so that's drawn liquidity. What you're going   to notice in the framework that I use here is  we're going to be bouncing from external range to   internal, back to external, back to internal. It's  just going to be this kind of oscillation. Now,  
[0:16:15] there going to be periods of time where it doesn't  work exactly like this, of course. But this is   really what's happening. Price moves from one  area of liquidity to the next, back and forth.   It pingpongs. And that is all you really need to  know when it comes to liquidity. The last concept   we're going to cover before we put it all together  here is premium versus discount. So in a range we can bifurcate it into a half point the 50%  here. So this is the top of the range. This is the   bottom of the range. The idea of premium versus  discount very simply is that discount exists at   the bottom of the range. Premium exists at the top  of the range. Now, if you want to really get into   the ICT fanboys heads, you can draw a fib here and  you can mark out your 61.8, your 78.6, your 70.5,   the OT, the magic sweet spot that everyone talks  about, but really what we're focused on here is  
[0:17:16] discount is the lower part of the range. Premium  is the upper part of the range. If you think about   this logically, what do you want to do at a  discount? Well, I want to buy. I want to buy   when things are discounted. So that means longs  probably higher probability in the lower part   of the range. If I'm short, where do I want to  short close those shorts? Well, I want to close   them where the buying occurs at the discount, the  lower part of the range. The inverse is of course   true for the upper part of the range. If you want  to sell something, I want to sell it at a premium.   So I'm selling in the upper part of the range.  Exactly. Short here, buy there. Yeah. I like to   think of it as like I want to buy cheap. I want to  sell when it's expensive. Okay, now we have all of   the price action concepts. I just shaved saved you  watching 12 months of ICT videos. Okay, just in  
[0:18:08] this little basic bit here. So, now that you have  a grasp on these concepts, I'm going to show you   how to apply this. And what it's going to allow  you to do is two super important things. It's one,   it's going to help you determine your directional  bias for your trades. You're gonna see a thousand   YouTube videos with people talk about their daily  bias. And it's one of the hardest things to figure   out. It's easy to notice a chart pattern and say,  "Okay, well, I've got a breaker here. I'm going to   long it with my stop here and my entry here." But  if the trend is down, right, this might not work.   You're not going to get that result. So, how do I  get the one where it actually works in my favor?   That's daily or directional bias. Where is price  most likely going to go to next? and then where's   the highest probability area that this setup is  going to occur and this framework is going to show  
[0:18:58] you exactly that. So I'm now going to put together  everything we had just discussed. So let's again   assume we are in an uptrend. So price is going to  have a high here and then that high is going to   get broken. So now we can draw a red line across  there and that's your market structure break and   then this high starts to form and we now have our  trading range. So you have the swing low and you   take that all the way up to the swing high that  formed after the market structure break. What   we're now looking for is the point of interest  that led price to create that higher high.   So I generally use order blocks or breakers for  this. Those are the most common ones that I use.  
[0:19:49] But that's going to generally form somewhere down  here. And we'll just draw that as like a box. So this is your order block. In terms of your  order block, how are you identifying an order   block? So for me, it's very simply the down  move before a move that went up and broke market   structures. So if we had, this will be tricky to  do here. So, we're saying we're on the way down.   We've already been down, you know, a few times.  Um, and then you have your bullish candle. Are   you saying that your order block essentially  would be like that? If this is obviously,   assuming this continues to make a new swing  high, yeah, you can also combine these. Okay,   so there's a little bit of nuance here. Some  people like to combine candles. Some people like   to use a single candle. The way I like to think  of it is think of it as the selling that occurred  
[0:20:42] before the buying that took out, you know, this  high. So, if that's three down candles, you can   use all three. If you just want to use the very  last down candle, you can do that as well. What   you're going to realize is you don't actually have  to be as precise as you think because remember   this is the high time frame. We're actually  going to zoom in. Yes. To look for the low   time frame. You want a bigger space. Yeah. I the  way I like to describe it is what we're looking   for here is you think of it as like a scope with  your sniper. Mhm. This is where we're zooming in   now and this is where I want to focus on. I don't  need to worry about anything that's going on here,   anything that's going on here. You don't need to  have like a really precise area because you're   really going to go snipe within that area. People  get so lost in the weeds like is this the exact   candle that's the order block? And I'm like  well actually it's kind of like both of these.   What you said makes sense though in terms of if  this is let's say it's taken two candles to go  
[0:21:33] down and it gets broken in one. You then take that  area because the definition well the concept of   an order block is essentially a block of orders.  Exactly. Exactly. So we'll delete just this stuff   here and we can delete the little sniper. I like  the sniper. Let's take a break for a minute there   guys cuz I want to tell you about the best CFD  prop firm in the entire industry. Funded Next.   Funded Next is a proud sponsor of Chart Fanatics  and they have been leading the CFD prop firm   industry for many years. Literally a top three  prop firm. Now, why is that? Let me quickly just   run through all the incredible things that they  do. First off, they have challenges for every   trader. Whatever you're looking for, they have.  They have a one-step challenge. They have two-step   challenges. And now, industryleading instant  funding. You get on demand payouts. You get   instant access to funding. You get a no daily loss  limit and for every 10% you make on the account  
[0:22:26] it doubles your account size. Mind-blowing.  Absolutely crazy. Now let me tell you though   the trading conditions they are the best in the  market when it comes to raw spreads and there are   no slippage. When it comes to trading platforms  they have MetaTrader 4, MetaTrader 5 and C trader   as well. Something unique to Funded Next is that  on every challenge type, you can get once you've   achieved 10% on your funded account, up to 15% of  the profits during the challenge phase given back   to you. In addition to that, you can also get a  reward bonus equivalent to the same amount as your   subscription fee on your first payout. And just in  case that's not enough, there's no time limit on   most challenges. News trading is allowed. There's  no imposed limits on instruments or position   sizes. They have scaleup plans that can 10x your  account size. And something that they did first,  
[0:23:19] if you don't receive your payout within 24  hours, you will receive an additional $1,000   compensation. Now, if that doesn't tell you that  they're for traders, I don't know what will. Now,   make sure you use the code CF to get the best  offer available at Funded Next right now. The   link is in the description below. Make sure you  join Funded Next today. Now, let's get back to the   episode. We now have our trading range. So, price  is now pulled back. We have our 50% line here,   which means a few things. We're now in a discount  here. So, what has happened so far here? Seems   like we've talked about a lot, but really this  is quite a simple graph. This order block is   the down move that caused that market structure  break. Well, really what happened here is this   is external range liquidity that got taken out.  Price is now trading higher and we now have a  
[0:24:15] trading range. What becomes the next draw on  liquidity? It's that point of interest back   within the trading range. So yeah, we want  to look to long here, but if we're up here   and maybe we get some sort of SFP here, our drawn  liquidity until we get down to here is for shorts.   So even though the high time frame might be  bullish, you could theoretically look for low time   frame shorts knowing that price is trying to draw  back and mitigate this order block and tag that   internal range liquidity. And then of course we're  looking for price to create a higher low here   within that POI and it just tagged internal range  liquidity. What becomes the next target? That old   swing high. And then this process repeats over  and over and over again. So I know it seems like   trying to remember order blocks, external range  liquidity, and all that stuff is complicated,  
[0:25:11] but if you can just kind of get an idea of this  framework, all you need is one price leg. You need   price to create a new high, and then you need to  mark out the range and then you need to find the   order block. If you can do those things, all the  trades that you take here are going to be so much   higher probability. Whenever you've had examples  where you're like, "Okay, I'm trading and it made   a pullback here. I longed it and then it did this  and why did I get stopped out before the actual   move happened?" This is going to help you avoid  that because in here there's going to be little   bounces. There's going to be little pullbacks. You  might think it's reversing and it might, but the   highest probability trade is going to occur back  at this internal liquidity level, back at this   point of interest. And if you just focus on this,  you simplify all that other noise you're looking   at and you say, "Okay, this is my weekly chart  or this is my daily chart." Great. Now, if this  
[0:26:06] is the daily, we're going down here on the H1 and  we're now actually going to go look for our entry.   Okay. So, now go ahead and wipe all of that. Just  to emphasize, we are now going to focus here. Yes,   we're focusing on here. So now imagine we've taken  that scope. At first we were looking at the entire   field. Now we've zoomed in and we see the guy's  head, right? We're ready to get the the head shot   in Counterstrike or Call of Duty. So now we have  this order block that we're within, right? This   is our high time frame OB. So let's call this just  the the daily order block. Yep. Just so we know.   And price is on the on the daily. This might  even be one or two candles. And you're like,   well, how do I get an entry? Well, in fact, you  can actually just enter on the daily. You could   literally enter right at the top of the order  block and you can put your stop at the bottom and  
[0:26:57] then you can target that external range liquidity  at the high. You can do that. However, if you want   to get a more precise entry, which we always do,  and get better riskreward and get a tighter setup,   because sometimes these order blocks are rather  large and the stop has to be super wide. Zooming   in to now the H1 chart, which is what we're on  here. This is where we're going to look for that   actual setup to form. This is where your kind of  dealer's choice occurs. However you like to enter   a trade now that you're in line with the high  time frame bias because we have our daily chart   is bullish. We're in the daily order block. We're  expecting daily continuation. Long setups that   occur in here are higher probability. They're  not all going to work. If it was that easy,  
[0:27:47] we'd be doing this on a yacht. But the probability  is a lot higher than trying to find, oh well,   this is an H1 SFP just randomly in the middle of  nowhere and that, oh, why didn't that work out?   But then the H1 SFP that played out here ended up  being huge. This is the key, and this is, I think,   the thing that most people miss early on in their  trading is they're looking for their entry pattern   to form without the high time frame picture. So  that initial setup there that gives you the high   time frame picture. You have your directional  bias. You know exactly where you're looking for   the low time frame setup to form and you know  once the setup forms in here, you're targeting   a high time frame higher high. That's all the  ingredients and you're at a discount. All of the   checklist that you might have, all of those things  are pinging. So there's a variety of different  
[0:28:41] setups that you can take on a low time frame. You  can find a fractal of the high time frame setup   within here, right? You can see a low, right? And  then a high get made and then a pullback into an   H1 order block. Like you can see that form within  here. Maybe you use this might sound blasphemy on   this podcast and coming from me, but maybe you  use indicators. Oh wow. And you might see you   might see price do something like this into this  zone and then the RSI is putting in a bullish   divergence. Right? There's tons of different  things. The one that I'm going to share with   you is my most common setup and it's a breaker.  The reason I really like the breaker entry is   because it gives you the entry and it gives you  the stop-loss. So, what we're going to be looking   to form within this daily order block is first a  swing low on the hourly. And we're not going to  
[0:29:35] enter on the first swing low and move away that  we see and assume that that's the bottom. I'm   actually looking for liquidity to be engineered  effectively here and people to say, "Okay, well,   we're bouncing. I'm gonna long." And what do they  do? They put their stop right there. Yeah. I want   to now see that swing low get taken out. And then  I want to see the high that generated that swing   low get broken. Get broken. Would you say in terms  of this uh would it just be a bounce? Is it just a   bounce enough or do you want it to see uh it break  let's say a false break essentially? So there's a   few different ways to look at it. Some people use  a change of state of delivery. So it's as soon as   it as soon as it uh trades through the down move.  The more confirmation in my opinion the better.   Using the full break of structure is going to give  you worse riskreward than using like an inverted  
[0:30:28] fair value gap. I don't want to get like too  crazy with the reaper death seal fair value gap,   but in theory technically once that liquidity  gets run like you're going to see like some   sort of low time frame FVG like do this and it's  like oh I could have entered right there. Yeah.   But by waiting for at least in my experience  and the data that I've collected by waiting   for that high it's increasing the probability to  get broken you're getting way more confirmation.   But in terms of this one though, the engineered  liquidity. Yeah. Do you do you is that a bounce   is enough or do you want that to break as well  like a high which is essentially then saying okay   now you know I mean it's kind of bringing in early  buyers. That's what I would class. Yeah. So this   I call it double confirmation actually. So if you  get just this is your single confirmation. If you   actually get two shifts because then effectively  you've got a double market structure break and the  
[0:31:22] run. More confirmation the better. And this  is to me this is like the most the strategy   so far is very mechanical. Yeah. This part is  the most subjective. Yeah. Because everyone has   their intricacies of how they like to enter. The  reason I like the breaker is because once you get   at least this right like at least the swing lows  form there and then you get that run of it and   then the structure break you now have your breaker  block that forms right that's your entry. And how   would you define the breaker just for the So the  breaker is going to be an order block that breaks,   right? That's like the that's the entire title  essentially the same thing that we marked out,   but in this case rather than looking to short from  it, you're expecting it to break because we're in   this higher time frame area. Yeah. So like look at  like imagine price is pulling back here and this  
[0:32:14] would be a bullish order block right here, right?  Yeah. But then it doesn't work as a bullish order   block. ends up losing a low and then reclaiming  it. It's like a SR. Like people will call it the   funniest things, right? Like it's kind of like,  you know, you have an overunder under over, right?   People call them over unders. Some people call  it a reclaim. Like there's a bazillion different   ways to like inverted head and shoulders. Yeah,  inverted head and shoulders. They're all It's all   the same thing. But yes, the breakers, right?  It's a bullish breaker is going to be a failed   bearish order block, right? Yeah. And now we're  getting real into the ICT nerds here. But the   reason I like it so much as a setup is because you  have an entry and then to me the risk is the stop   run. Yeah, you could put your risk right below the  breaker, but at least because I'm a crypto trader,   I find that those get tagged more. You get a lot  of wicks in crypto because it's less liquid. So I  
[0:33:08] find having my stop here, like if if this low gets  taken out, I'm wrong anyways. And now you've got   this setup within your high time frame bias. Are  you holding this trade to the external? Ideally,   you should, right? Because your draw is way  higher. But very much, but very often, right,   if you can get a pretty decent riskreward in here.  I'm I'm 2R. I drisk. So, I either take half off   or I'll move my stop to break even. Depends what  I'm like doing, how confident I am on the setup.   It also changes if I'm layering like if I'm  entering on the M15. Mhm. And then I used the H4,   but then let's and these are both bullish, but  let's say the the weekly is bearish. That's   slightly less high probability than if all three  were bullish. You know what I mean? Yeah. But in  
[0:33:59] theory, the idea here is you're finding the exact  moment that the high time frame higher low is   forming. Yeah. That's what we're really looking  for. I'm looking for the exact moment that the   pullback on the on the daily ends because on the  daily this might just be two candles, right? I'm   trying to find this exact moment that this uptrend  is resuming and this is kind of the clue. Okay,   we're no longer going down. We've been trending  down into this level. Okay, now we've got a change   in character, a break of structure. There's so  many terms. um and it's um the optimal area to   get into that higher low and then absolutely  you can ride this thing to the high time frame,   higher high. So just one thing that stands out  to me potentially I love everything so far,   the layers, the simplicity as you mentioned very  early on because we're looking at two time frames.  
[0:34:52] Uh we're looking at very clear uh you know  pointers, the the range, the liquidity aspect,   uh the structure and then your your OB in this  case. Uh and then you have your area as we said   we zoom in for just this bit though what's the  reality would you say obviously each case will   be different but are is it a reality where you  might take a loss or two in this area because it's   giving false signals breakouts wherever it may be  absolutely I mean the the beauty of trading right   is asymmetric riskreward like that's the number  one all of I should preface with all of my entries   I need is part of my checklist the riskreward  has to be a minimum of 2 to one. Yeah. So,   if I see this form, but like the stop is, you  know, really wide and I'm saying, "Okay, well,   the target it's only going to be a one to one."  That's no longer a trade, even though it ticks all  
[0:35:47] the other boxes. I need a minimum of two to one R.  Got you. And this is because you only need to then   win 33% of the time, right? So if you can win one  out of three trades, you're breaking even if each   trade is two to one. Like that make that was a  quantum leap in my trading was like you always   see 100% win rate. I have a 90% win rate with  your strategy. I'm like dude I can't win 90% of   my trades. I'm lucky if I get half. Like dude, if  you can win half, you're going to be rich. You're   going to be rich. Like there's the the math on on  riskreward. When you do it this way, it makes it   seem so much more attainable. Yeah. Because if you  can be right 40% of the time, but it's 2 to1 RR,   you are profitable. So I I you absolutely are  going to have false positives. You're going to   have one that it takes out the low, you enter, and  it takes out the low again. Yeah. But I'm willing  
[0:36:40] to take multiple shots here because my strategy  allows for it and because I'm of the belief that   I'm in the most optimal area for the reversal to  happen. Plus, it's not a case where just because   it took you out, you then enter straight away. you  needed to break again. Yeah, exactly. And still   hit the markers that you And these are great  lessons, too, right? Like you get stopped out   and you go, "Okay, well, what went wrong there?  Did I enter too early?" Maybe the breaker form,   the setup formed like right as it touched the OB  and you should have given it some time to to work   the level. You got to remember this daily level  might be a time. So, crypto is not as in line   with the New York Open, the London session, things  like that. I have found over the recent years and   this is probably in part due to institutions now  getting in the pool that it is starting to trade   more like New York open we always have a move in  crypto now we have you it's it's it's actually  
[0:37:33] shocking like you get the pre-new york pump and  then it fully reverses on New York open like   that's been happening consistently for months  now and um that used to not be the case that   being said because I trade on the higher time  frames so I'm trading weekly and the daily a   and then the daily and like the H1. Yes, there  are times where it's like all lined up, but I find   the timing of the setup that's more important for  like low time frame intraday traders. Yeah, true.   Crypto it's it's nice cuz you know you might get  a trade on Sunday. You know, when you're trying   to watch the football game and not pay attention  to the charts, all your alerts go off. It's true.   It never ends. No switching off. Okay, cool. Let's  go through, as you say, the pros and cons. If you   want, I can do the cons on this side for you.  Let's take a break for a minute there, guys,   because I want to tell you about our incredible  sponsor, Tradezeller. Tradezella is the number  
[0:38:23] one trading tool in the entire trading industry.  Tradezella allows you to become a more profitable   trader. Allows you to make immense progress as  a trader, no matter if you're a beginner or an   advanced level trader because it makes journaling  easy. It makes journaling something that is fun   and enjoyable and something that is interactive.  So, no matter if you're a crypto trader, no matter   if you're a futures trader, no matter if you're a  forex trader, no matter if you're a stock trader,   all you have to do is select your broker, your  platform of choice, and connect it to Tradzella,   and it will automatically sync your trades and  pull all of that data onto the dashboard, making   journaling and finding your edge and adapting  your edge so easy. In collaboration with Tradzella   and Chart Fanatic specifically, we are actually  getting the playbooks from the episodes that we're   filming with these incredible verified traders  and adding them as playbooks onto Tradezella. So,  
[0:39:18] you can actually go on there and see the rule sets  already predefined. So, make sure you check that   out as well. Now, you can actually get 10% off  your monthly subscription using CF10 on Tradella   right now. But more importantly, I would say  CF20 for 20% off your yearly subscription with   Tradezella. The links for Tradzella are in  the description below. So, make sure you go   check them out. Use CF20. Get 20% off your yearly  subscription. Become a better trader today. Now,   let's get back to the episode. So, the pros  almost spelled wrong. Go to school, kids. So,   the pros is it's simple, right? Easy. That was  one of the biggest things that not just drew me to   this system that I've slowly put together, but to  price action. I found indicators complicated, man.   It's like Ichimoku clouds, all these different  moving averages, divergences, and stuff. I'm like,  
[0:40:12] "Okay, this is like complicated for me." So, it's  easy to understand and it's clean. If you're OCD,   your chart's always going to look nice and pretty  and you can post on Twitter and get lots of likes   because that's almost as important as making  money. Of course. Um, second is it combines a lot   of price action concepts that again people seem  to over complicate. Like you can find 500 videos   about order blocks, daily bias, market structure,  trends, and it's analysis by paralysis. You're   like, "Okay, do I whose videos do I watch? Who's  doing it right? ICT said this. This guy's saying   this. This guy says ICT stole from this guy." It's  crazy. With this system, it combines all of those   things together. So, OBS, ranges, bias, all of  it is combined just in the framework of one price   swing. You now know the direction where you want  to look for your trade and where you think it's  
[0:41:10] going to happen and where you think it's going to  go after. It's super mechanical. I think everyone   early on, they want something that is mechanical  because someone's like, "Oh, here's where you look   for your setup." I was like, well, what's that  mean? You know what I mean? Like, this is like   almost so mechanical that you could code it into a  100% into an algo. Now, when we get into the cons,   we'll expound on this a little bit. And then  to your point at the very start of the video,   any asset, any time frame. So, this is not  cryptosp specific. I've used this in um I've used   this in FX. I've used this in futures. I've used  this trading commodities. I've used this trading   crypto. It just works as long as you're doing  top down. Yeah. As long following the system,   you need a minimum of two time frames. Your high  time frame is the one that you're drawing your   range on, and your low time frame is the one where  we're looking for that setup on. Now, the cons,  
[0:42:05] just because it's simple, it doesn't mean you  don't have to work. You still have to get into   the charts because it's very easy for me to draw  it for you on a whiteboard, show you a hindsight   example and say, "Look, it happened perfectly."  Everything is different when you're doing it   live. The nuance, it's game time, right? Shooting  a penalty kick in practice is way different than   doing it when you know the lights are on you. You  have to require work. It requires work. You've got   to be able to recognize the pattern live. Um, and  just because it's mechanical, I think some people   think it's all you need. Mhm. No system is purely  mechanical. Mhm. There's always some discretion.   There's always some subjectivity. There's always  like there might be a setup that that has all   of the things. I just don't take it. Yep. For  whatever reason. Maybe I had a tummy ache. You  
[0:42:56] know what I mean? Or maybe something else is going  on. SPX is nuking. Bitcoin's printing along. I   don't like it as much. Yeah. So early on, I think  a mechanical strategy is great, but if you want   to become profitable, you need to make this your  own. I like to think of this is a Trojan horse for   price action. I'm showing you like some very like  basic stuff and I'm kind of force feeding you a   bunch of like price action stuff that you maybe  don't want to learn and all of a sudden you are   marking out order blocks. You understand daily  bias now without really going through the ICT   mentorship to figure out what each one of those  things mean. So I feel like the mechanical aspect   really well the whole thing is but then when it  comes to the execution over time and to do it   successfully and profitably long term that's where  you have to build that discretion that intuition   that that deeper understanding and you might trade  gold all the time and you might say you know what  
[0:43:49] the way that Maine showed me to mark ranges it  actually works a little better this way on gold   right so and that that's kind of the last con last  con like it's not always going to work like That's   trading. Levels will get blown through. Ranges  will fail. POIs will get smoked. In a super hard   trending market, you might not get that really  deep discount pullback where you want to look for   the setup. This is a super true for crypto when  it's trending hard. You can't you can't be looking   at the daily and the weekly. You got to be on the  H4 to find pullbacks because on the daily it's   just a green candle, right? So it it it it's not  always going to work in every trading environment.   So you have to know your Yeah, exactly. your  environment and the conditions you're in. You got   to know your market and you got to be malleable,  right? That's one of the things I think people  
[0:44:39] there's something about being robotic in trading,  but you still have to have the ability to be   malleable based on the asset, the timing, all of  that other stuff. So some tips that I find make   this a even better system. Practice obviously. So,  the better you become at pattern recognition, um,   the you're you're going to see this everywhere.  Every chart you're going to look at, you're going   to say, "Okay, there's my range. There's my order  block. There might be a put in the chart time,   right? 10,000 hours, whatever you want to call  it." If you're not putting in the chart time,   back testing, forward testing, it's not going to  work for you. You got to be able to see it form   live. Um, I think adding additional confluences.  Would you say you have to be careful with that   as well with the additional confluences?  Yes, because you don't want to overdo it,   right? Especially early on like when I tell people  who are learning to trade like Bitcoin with me,  
[0:45:34] I say just look at Bitcoin in a vacuum. It's not  in a vacuum. Like if S&P is nuking, good chance   Bitcoin is going to nuke. Even if it slightly is  going up like and they're diverging for a period   of time, really they're probably going to end up  going down together. So initially start with it in   a vacuum but as you get more comfortable yes find  more confluences do cross market analysis don't   just look at your USD what's the DXY doing? Yeah  what are these cross pairs doing and adding those   additional confluences will increase the hit rate  and adding even another time frame. So instead of   just using the daily and the H1 and you say okay  well the daily is bullish so I'm gonna look for   bullish setups on the H1. Well, if the weekly  is also bullish, that's now an even stronger   hit rate. So now, if you're in the bottom of a  daily range and the bottom of a weekly range and  
[0:46:26] then looking for an H1 setup, that's going to be a  way higher probability trade than one that's only   based on two time frames. Do you use by any chance  off topic in a sense, but like do you use dynamic   sizing or Yes. Is this where you would look to  Absolutely. if I have multiple confluences like if   so I took a trade on euro the other day dollar's  taking out a weekly low into a monthly fair value   gap that hourly setup to me it's like this is  where you get that home run trade that's going   to give you like you know five six sevenr uh so  yes I absolutely use dynamic sizing also dynamic   sizing is super important in crypto because when  the market is regular v versus crazy v like we   had a period a couple weeks ago where over a 10day  period, Bitcoin went up and down 10% almost every   day. Yeah. So, if you're opening a million  dollar position, like normally, and now it's  
[0:47:18] that volatile, all of a sudden you're offside 50K  like three hours into the session and you're like,   "What the hell happened?" So, yes, dynamic  sizing. If you have more confidence in a setup,   maybe this is where you risk two or 3% instead  of just one. Let's start up the charts. Let's see   some examples, shall we? All right. So, now we're  going to go over some chart examples here. So,   this is going to be painful for some uh Bitcoiners  out there because this literally just happened.   Um, but as you can see here, we have our  range. So, in this case, it's a bearish range,   right? We had a low and a high here, and  we broke market structure to the downside,   creating a bearish price leg. Yeah. First thing  we do is we mark out our range. So there's   the swing high down to the swing low. Next,  you mark out our PD array. So in this case,  
[0:48:10] it's a bearish order block. Again, this is the up  candle for the move down that broke that structure   there. Took out that external range liquidity.  And now we're simply waiting for price to pull   back into that area. And that becomes the short  that you want to take. And I actually took this   short. You can also see here I pulled the fib. It  shows that we were at discount pricing here. So,   we were in the upper part of that trading range.  Again, we want to short in a discount. Yeah. So,   this is our high time frame. This is the two-day  chart. So, then zooming in, you can see here I   took a little bit of a breaker setup here. We  took out a swing high. So, this is that two-day   order block here. Took out a swing high. We broke  structure to the downside. We came and we retest.   And this is exactly the kind of stuff you want  to see to know you're on the right side of the  
[0:49:02] trade. I want to see like ICT always says like,  okay, I want to know that the institutions are in   this move. It's institutionally sponsored. Really,  what does that mean? It means that you're getting   a big effing move in the direction of your trade.  You don't want it to just kind of do this. That   doesn't give me confidence. I want to see a big  fair value gap form. I want to see price move down   aggressively to let me know that yes indeed my  little 30 minute setup here is working this well   because it's in line with that 2D order block that  2D order flow all based on that basic framework.   So I have another example here of that exact trade  that I actually took uh in Discord. So, we have   our market structure break. We have our bearish  order block. And in this instance, I just took the   trade off the high time frame. So, I didn't even  let me just make it a little more zoomed here.
[0:50:02] I didn't even wait for price to go in on the low  time frame. I simply just took the trade because   you can you don't have to go in and dial in your  your setup if you think that the riskreward is   good enough as is. Let's take a break for a minute  though, guys, cuz I want to tell you about our   incredible partnership with propfirmtrader.com.  Majority of you out there are prop firm traders.   You're using prop firms to leverage your trading  skills to be able to get more capital and to be   able to absolutely change your life. So  what's important to be able to find the   right challenge for you with the best firms and  most of all the best prices and that is exactly   what propertrader.com does. propformtrader.com's  allows you to compare prop firms be able to find   the best challenge suited to your trading style  and get you the exclusive best discounts in the   entire industry so that you're paying the cheapest  price possible for your prop firm challenge. So on  
[0:50:57] propfirmtrader.com, you'll be able to use filters  to be able to do that and find the exact challenge   for you. Be able to find your favorite prop firms.  Just look on screen right now. You can see futures   firms. You can see CFD firms with offers up to  50% off, which is incredible. And you can also   see Alpha Capital there with a one-step challenge  with 25% off using PFT1. And there's so many more   exclusive discounts only on propertrader.com.  It is the go-to site for all proper traders out   there. And one thing I'm really excited about that  I personally helped to organize was the giveaway   of giveaways. The sevenf figureure giveaway  just through purchasing your challenges for the   best price through propfrader.com. Every single  week, you will automatically be entered into an   incredible giveaway, a collaborative effort across  all of these firms on screen between 100 to 200k  
[0:51:53] accounts over seven figures. It means that one  person every single week who's made a purchase   through proper.com will be getting seven figures  in challenges that could completely revolutionize   your trading journey. Again, all you do is for  any of the firms on propertrader.com, use the   code PFT at checkout and you will automatically  be entered every single week. The link for   propertrader.com is in the description below. Now,  let's get back to the episode. We have our range,   we have our bearish order block, we have our point  of interest, and I literally just entered there   and I put my stop above the swing high there at  the order block. And the result was everyone cried   and we all lost a bunch of money. But you made  money at the same time. I made money. A lot of   people lost money. I actually even posted this one  on Twitter because I'm so generous saying this is  
[0:52:45] the exact spot where we would have a lower high.  Yeah, the bears have a super clear invalidation.   This is the point of breakdown. So if we're  in fact seeing a trend shift, this is the most   optimal place for that to happen. And that's  all we're really looking to do. Just talking   targeting the new external targeting the new low.  And so you can see the candle looked really nice.   Everyone got bullish again and that same candle  closed horrifically. Mhm. And uh there's your full   TP. So I closed that trade. The next example I  have here is a soul trade that I took to all-time   highs. Same idea here, right? You have your Oops.  Oh my god. You have your swing low. Mhm. You have   your swing high. I'm sorry. My lines are not  very straight. And then you have your order   block. So again, what are we looking for here?  The last candle before the There's your market  
[0:53:36] structure break. So there's your external range  taken. This is the POI that generated that fresh   high. So if this thing is going to continue to go  in its uptrend, this is the most optimal area for   that to occur. If I drew my range out from here,  this would be the discount of the range. And would   you be doing your range from from this this the  absolute low or from the low that led to the   break? So the easiest way that I tell people to  do it initially is you want to take the swing low   Mhm. to the swing high. Just the most immediate  one. Okay. Now once you get a little bit more   nuanced with it, the trading range that you define  can can change. You could use you could say,   well actually this is really the most meaningful  swing low of this price leg because on the monthly   chart this actually is the swing low and this is  the swing high on the monthly. But for simplicity  
[0:54:30] sake of the system, I tell people to just take  the most immediate low. What is the exact swing   low before the most swing high? The downside of  doing this is occasionally it might come down and   hit this order block, right? Which is still within  this range. Yes. And then that ends up being the   higher low. But for beginners and for to be honest  with you, doing it this way, it works plenty fine.   And more often than not, I think it's a problem  where everyone's trying to be perfect all the   time. Yeah. Well, there's again, it's that kind  of discretion aspect. What's the swing low that   matters? Like you can't go on YouTube, you'll  find 10 different people tell you a different   way to pick your working range. Yeah. Right.  This is the easiest way to explain it. So again,   this one you could have just entered as soon as it  retested, stop below target the external. Yeah. In   this instance, I actually zoomed in. So you can  see price I zoomed in here and I actually took a  
[0:55:28] low time frame entry off of the sweep here, but  this is the exact same trade again. We came back   to the order block. We built up some liquidity  here. We actually ended up building up one more   low and then it ripped and that's what you can  see in the next picture here. And this went all   the way back to all-time high. Again, how do we  know we're in line with the high time frame move?   Fair value gap was formed. massive fair value gap  formed. That's true. In regards to this though,   because obviously you can trade this with crypto,  but another benefit can be that you can use this   to short-term well, it's still trading, right?  Where you you buy spot and then sell when the   price has gone higher. Absolutely. And we've  talked about this before, like at the end of   the day, if you want to buy Salana spot, you could  have bought it here and you would have made money   when it traded to 300, but this was the best time  to buy it. And you still need to know where that  
[0:56:21] idea is wrong. Maybe you buy that spot here and  we we do this and you want to cut it. Maybe you   need to cut that and not round trip it back down  to $10 or wherever it might go, right? Yeah. And   that's the problem I think a lot of crypto people  have with spot is they don't think of it as a   trade. It's still a trade, just it's a trade on  a higher time frame if anything. Um, next up, I   also long Bitcoin to all-time high using the exact  same strategy. And people are like, "Oh my god,   he caught the long before 100K." It's like with  the most basic price action of all time. You have   your trading range, a low to a high. You have your  order block. You have price pull back into that   order block. And on in this instance, we actually  got a high time frame sweep, which is like that's   like money in the bank in my opinion. Like if you  were to enter this here and your stop was here.   Yeah. And then we got this sweep, I would add more  size and I would bring my validation up to there.  
[0:57:17] Okay. But in this instance, I actually ended up  zooming in if I'm not mistaken and I entered in   on a low time frame setup. So you can see here we  came into the order block and it was just like I   was showing you guys before. I'm saying, okay,  let's see if they generate some liquidity. Yeah,   they're creating some lows. We took one of  those lows out and now I'm just waiting for   that shift. Right. So I ended up entering quite  aggressively because this is that H12 SFP I was   talking about. Yeah. But then here's your H1  breaker. There's your H1 market structure break.   There's your invalidation. So that entire fractal,  that's exactly what you see form right here. You   see it? Yeah. And it's within the high time  frame zone. It creates a fair value gap almost   immediately. That tells me that I'm very much  on the got to get the the clout from the boys.  
[0:58:10] Uh but again the fact that you get these thin  long moves that tells you that this is like an   inst I hate saying like institutionally sponsored  momentum. I'm on the right side of the trade,   right? Like anytime you get that move where  it's like okay it tags your entry and then it   gets going. Fair value gaps are the easiest way  to identify that. Like are we seeing expansive   moves to the upside? Yeah. Then I'm on the right  trade. And I think that was it. So I love that.   That's literally longing the pico low of Bitcoin  and then from here it traded to $110,000 and we   entered it using two lines and an order block. So  all those ICT guys out there who are telling you   all these different concepts and stuff, lots of  it works, but simplicity also works at least to   begin with. Yeah. And then you can Okay, now  I want the unicorn setup. I want the breaker  
[0:59:02] plus a fair value gap and I want an SMT divergence  between Bitcoin and ETH at the lows. Bitcoin made   a lower low, ETH made a higher low or something.  You can add all of that to this system. But the   main thing you said there is if you want if you  want to, but it works as is. And if you're saying,   "Hey, I'm hitting 40%. I want to get to 45 or I  want to start hitting, you know, three or four."   That's refining your edge. You're sharpening the  knife. But this is, like I said, it's a Trojan   horse. Here's a bunch of stuff to get your feet  wet. You can actually take this, start marking up   your charts, and then go ahead, go crazy with it.  Add all sorts of different make a PDF that you'll   sell for $15 to someone with your entry technique,  which is just this. I'm sorry for any gurus that   I've now ruined your thing because this is how a  lot of guys I know, teach people to trade. They're  
[0:59:56] like, it's the sweep and then the structure  break. It's like, well, it's just a breaker,   but whatever you want to call it, unicorn thing,  go for it. But this is it, guys. It works.   Proof's in the pudding. Thank you, man. I really  appreciate it, honestly. And I know everyone at   home does as well. Drop a comment of your biggest  takeaway. Any questions you have for Maine, drop   them in the comment below. Maybe he'll see them,  maybe he won't. We'll see. But what you should   definitely check out are the links for Maine and  Breakout in the description below. Drop a like,   hit subscribe. Other episodes are on screen. And  until next time, it's been Char Fanatics. Take a